RNA sequencing
We randomly selected 4 BS patients, 3 TS patients, and 3 controls spinal samples for high-throughput lncRNAs and mRNAs analysis. Firstly, we used the Trizol reagent (Invitrogen, CA, USA) to extract total RNA from each sample, and then used the NanoDrop ND-2000 spectrophotometer (Thermo Fisher Scientific, CA, USA) to determine RNA concentration and purity. We only chose RNA samples with a 260/280 values between1.8-2.0, and a 28S/18S values above 1.5 for subsequent analysis. Next, we removed rRNA using Ribo Zero rRNA Removal Kit (Illumina, USA) and randomly interrupted mRNA and lncRNA into short fragments of 200-500nt. These short fragments are reverse transcribed into cDNA and subjected to double synthesis strands through random primers. They are then amplified by PCR after end repair, adding an A-tail, connecting a connector, and selecting an appropriate length to construct a complete cDNA library. The quality and concentration of each library were tested using Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer and Qubit 2.0 Fluorometer. After ensuring compliance, we sequenced each library with 150bp paired-end reads on the Illumina NovaSeq 6000.
After quality control of the sequencing raw reads, we aligned cleaned reads to the human reference genome using HISAT2 software. Finally, we used StringTie software for transcript reconstruction and quantification, and HTSeq software for gene counting.
Bioinformatics analysis
Differential expression analysis was performed using edgeR package in R on the data from BS patients, TS patients, and healthy controls. The screening threshold for differentially expressed mRNAs (DEmRs) and lncRNAs (DElncRs) is set at |log2 fold change| > 1 and P < 0.05.
Subsequently, we used the Weighted Gene Coexpression Network Analysis (WGCNA) method to construct a co-expression network. Firstly, we calculated the correlation between differentially expressed genes based on their expression levels in samples. Then, we selected the minimum β value to make the weighted network fit the scale-free network. We used the concept of 'module' to represent a group of highly co-expressed genes. Then, we conducted correlation analysis between the module eigengenes of each module and the clinical traits of samples to identify the modules that are significantly associated with clinical traits.
In the enrichment analysis, we used clusterProfiler package in R to perform enrichment analysis of Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) on DEmRs and module genes. P < 0.05 was considered as the threshold for significant enrichment.
